May 6, 2020
==============

Attendees:
----------

**OpenHW:** Mike Thompson<br>
**SiLabs:** Oivind Ekelund, Wajid Minhass, Paul Zavalney, Sebastian Ahmed, Steve Richmond, Arjan Bink

Notes:
------

Actions: Mike, Wajid, Paul.


Topics:
-------
1. Status of Actions from last meeting:

- **Davide** reached out to lowRISC (not Chips Alliance as previously recorded) but has not received confirmation from them regarding their use/verification of riscv-dbg.
- **Mike**: no effort on retiring the "dm", "scripts", "tb\_MPU", tb\_riscv" and "verilotor-model" testbenches in the core-v-verif repository this week.
- **Wajid** has not yet started tasks to provide an estimate of completion for the Vplan and review of the lowRISC Ibex implementation.
- **Mike** has reached out to newly appointed SW TG co-chairs regarding toolchain.  The issue is complex and a solution will be a long time coming.  See topic #2.
- **Mike** and **Paul** still need to integrate Paul's debug verification strategy the core-v-verif verification strategy.
- **Mike** added a [test program environment](https://core-v-docs-verif-strat.readthedocs.io/en/latest/test_program_environment.html) chapter to explan of how/why the toolchain, test program and testbench memory map need to be aligned.  This chapter also includes input from the SW TB co-chairs and Paul Zavalney.


2. Meetings:

- With the TWG and TG leadership in place there may be some changes to how meetings are organized/held going forward.
- I will recommend to VTG that our meeting minutes continue to be captured in core-v-docs in markdown format.


3. Toolchain:

- A team at Thales has discovered that the PULP toolchain we have been using does not support the latest Compliance testsuite from the RISC-V foundation.   (see core-v-verif issue/task [#46](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-verif/issues/46) and pull-request [#95](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-verif/pull/95)).
- It will be some time before the SW TG can put a toolchain in place that meets our needs.
- In the meantime Mike suggested that the recommendation from Sebastien Jacq of Thales is the best: we should all switch to the RISC-V toolchain and later switch to whatever toolchain the SW TG blesses.  This involves some short-term pain during the transition from the PULP to RISC-V toolchain. We will also loose the ability to exercise Xpulp instructions for a time.
- Arjan reports that he has a version of the PULP toolchain that _should_ be able to handle the compliance suite.<br>
ACTION: **Mike** to introduce Arjan and Sebastien Jacq of Thales to see if we ca set up a fully functional verison of the PULP toolchain at Thales.

4. CV32 verification environment update:

- Integration of OVPsim Instruction Set Simulator is progressing.  On a separate fork of the environment we are able to compare all CSRs, GPRs and the PC as each instruction is retired.  Still a few minor issues to resolve before we can integrate these changes onto the master branch.   The goal is to have the ability to run per-instruction comparisons of CSRs, GPRs and the PC for all test-programs (manually written or generated).
- A group at Thales has issued a pull-request to integrate the Google instruction set generator (riscv-dv).   Mike is very motivated to get this in, but it is gated by the Imperas ISS, toolchain and test program environment issues.
- [Pull request #100](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-verif/pull/100) to bring in the debug updates is blocked by the ISS work.  Paul is "inconvenienced, but not blocked" by this. Having said that, it is never a good idea to delay a pull-request for too long, so if the ISS cannot be merged into the trunk by end-of-business on Thursday, May 7, Mike will merge in 

5. Other Busines:

- Arjan enquired about support for the signatures generated by the Compliance testsuite. Mike reported that the existing virtual peripherals inherited from the PULP "core" testbench support a "signature writer", but it is not currently used.   In order for this to work, it needs to be supported in a consistent manner by the test-programs, linker control file and testbench.  It is a goal of the effort currently documented in the Verification Strategy's [test program environment](https://core-v-docs-verif-strat.readthedocs.io/en/latest/test_program_environment.html) to define a single linker control script that is consistent with all known sources of test programs (Compliance, Google generator and manually written tests) and the [virtual peripherals](https://core-v-docs-verif-strat.readthedocs.io/en/latest/sim_tests.html#virtual-peripherals) currently supported in the testbench.


April 29, 2020
==============

Attendees:
----------

**OpenHW:** Davide Schiavone, Mike Thompson<br>
**SiLabs:** Oivind Ekelund, Wajid Minhass, Paul Zavalney, Sebastian Ahmed, Steve Richmond, Arjan Bink

Notes:
------

Actions: Mike, Wajid, Paul.
Note: meeting minutes published on GitHub at core-v-docs/verif/MeetingMinutes.

Topics:
-------
1. Status of Actions from last meeting:
- Mike confirmed that riscv-dbg is being used by lowRISC Ibex.
- Davide reached out to Chips Alliance but has not received confirmation from them regarding their use/verification of riscv-dbg.
- Mike captured strategy for supporting both Core-level and Subsystem-level verification in a single UVM environment in the Verification Strategy.  Arjan provided review comments.
- Wajid has not yet had a chance to start on the review of the core-level debug verification implementation at lowRISC Ibex.
- Davide and Paul completed an update of Debug and Trace features in the user manual (see pr #287).
- Mike completed translation of user manual into restructured text.
- Wajid has not yet had a chance to start on the cv32e40p debug Vplan.

2. New Leadership:

- Mike will generate status for newly appointed VTG co-chairs Steve Richmond and Jingliang Wang.
- Team agreed that our on-going debug-verification effort would proceed as usual since debug is a "low hanging fruit" that needs to be implemented/verified regardless of future direction from the VTG co-chairs and/or TWG.

3. Next Steps:

- Team agreed to consolidate all debug verification into core-v-verif UVM environment.<br>
ACTION: **Mike** to retire the "dm", "scripts", "tb\_MPU", tb\_riscv" and "verilotor-model" testbenches in the core-v-verif repo.
- Need to get started on the debug Vplan.<br>
ACTION: **Wajid** to provide an estimate of completion for the Vplan and review of the lowRISC Ibex implementation.

4. Other Business:

- Team re-iterated that the current focus shall be on debug verification of the core, not subsystem.  Subsystem considerations may be discussed at a future date.
- SiLabs is interested in using the Pulp riscv-dbg IP as the DM for their cv32e40p based subsystem.  No interest in a commercial DM at this time.
- Paul has encountered issues using the PULP toolchain.  Mike reported that this has been a long-standing open issue.<br>
ACTION: **Mike** to reach out to newly appointed SW TG co-chairs.
- Team review Paul's suggested additions to the Verification Strategy to support debug verif.<br>
ACTION: **Mike** and **Paul** to integrate into the core-v-verif verification strategy.<br>
ACTION: **Mike** to provide an explanation of how/why the toolchain, test program and testbench memory map need to be aligned.
- Agree to hold weekly meetings in the same time-slot (Mike to book).


April 15, 2020
==============

Attendees:
----------

**OpenHW:** Davide Schiavone,Mike Thompson<br>
**SiLabs:** Oivind Ekelund, Paul Zavalney, Sebastian Ahmed, Steve Richmond, Arjan Bink

Notes:
------

Actions: Mike, David, Wajid, Paul, Sebastian.<br>
Slides available on GitHub at: https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/verif/Common/Presentations

Topics:
-------
1. Agreed that we should adopt the PULP-Platform [riscv-debug](https://github.com/pulp-platform/riscv-dbg) as the DM and DTM implementation for at least CV32E40P, CV32E40 and probably CV64A.

- Arjan has reverse-engineered the riscv-debug and it supports the functional sub-blocks and interfaces shown in Figure 1 of the [OBI specification](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/cores/cv32e40p/OBI-v1.0.pdf).
- It is believed that this is the DM/DTM being used by lowRISC ibex.<br>
ACTION: Mike to confirm
- Rumour has it that this IP is being verified by Google.<br>
ACTION: Davide to confirm and inquire about projected completion.

2. Agreed that primary verification of debug should be done at the CORE level, not Subsystem level.

- Mike would still like to have the ability to verify debug at both the core and sub-system levels, but agreed with the goal to verify it first at the core level.<br>
ACTION: Mike to illustrate a strategy for supporting both Core-level and Subsystem-level verification in a single UVM environment.
- Verification environment for debug will be the UVM environment (uvmt\_cv32), not the "dm" testbench inherited from RI5CY.<br>
ACTION: Wajid to review Ibex core-level debug verification implementation.

3. Documentation:

- Paul had previously created a pull-request to update Debug and Trace features in the user manual.<br>
ACTION: **Davide** and **Paul** to push that through.
- Mike stupidly admitted that he is working to create a restructured text version of the user manual.<br>
ACTION: **Mike**, get it done and committed to GitHub.<br>
ACTION: **Paul** buys a bottle opener for the wine Davide will owe Mike.
- Need to get started on the debug Vplan.<br>
ACTION: **Wajid** owns this (Paul agreed to contribute)

4. Tracking:

- No strong comments/opinions about using GitHub's "per-repository projects", so Mike will publish tasks as GitHub issues on the CV32E40P Debug Verification project.
- Agreed to hold weekly meetings.
- ACTION: **Sebastian** to suggest convenient time for Austin and Oslo (we can assume these are also convenient for Ottawa and Zurick).
