May 20, 2020
==============

Attendees:
----------

**OpenHW:** Mike Thompson, Rick O'Connor<br>
**Futurewei:** Leo Wang<br>
**SiLabs:** Steve Richmond, Paul Zavalney, Sebastian Ahmed, Arjan Bink<br>
**Thales:** Jerome Quevremont<br>
**SymbioticEDA:** Nina Engelhardt<br>
**BTA Design Services:** Alfredo Herrera<br>
**Metrics:** Aimee Sutton<br>

*Recalled from memory, I believe I missed a couple of folks*

Notes:
------

Actions: Steve

Topics:
-------
1. Status of Actions from last meeting:

- None.  First meeting of the VTG.

2. Charter Review

- Proposed charter for the VTG was presented.  In general the charter was well-received.
- One request from Rick O'Connor to extend scope of verification in charter beyond just the RISC-V OpenHW processor cores.
- Thales raised questions regarding open-ness of core with respect to verification.  The 3rd party tools needed to fully replicate the verification environment include a commerical supported simulator, and the Imperas ISS (OVPSim)<br>
**ACTION:** Steve to update slides to address Rick's concern.<br>
**ACTION:** Steve to publish slides to Mattermost.

3. VTG Overview Presentation

- Presented general overview of current verification strategy, workflow and CV32E40P.
- Proposed reduction of scope in initial verification effort for CV32E40P (PULP, trace, FPU).  No objections were raised.

4. Future meetings

- Proposed 2 week cadence of meetings.
- Proposed time of 1.5 hours per meeting.
- Proposed 10am CDT (US Central).  Thales propsed moving this to at least 930am to ensure that meeting ends before 6pm in Europe.<br>
**ACTION:** Steve to propose next VTG meeting time on Mattermost.
